doc(AuditBeat_Linux):New intake documentation (#118)
SEKOIA-IO/documentation: docs/integrations/log_auditbeat_linux.md

uuid: eaa34af4-a194-485c-a33e-4cdd18d064b0
name: Linux AuditBeat

## Overview

> Auditbeat communicates directly with the Linux audit framework, collects the same data as auditd then the data can be stored locally on a JSON format before beeing sent to a log concentrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auditbeat communicates directly with the Linux audit framework, collects the same data as auditd then the data can be stored in JSON inside a log file before being sent to a log concentrator.

```

## AuditBeat logs

> With AuditBeat it is possible to collect various activities such as the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With AuditBeat it is possible to collect various activities such as:

```

> - Authentication: From system module, login dataset retreive User logins, logouts, and system boots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Authentication: From system module, login dataset retrieve User logins, logouts, and system boots

```

- File monitoring: From audit module, the file metricset sends events when a file is changed (created, updated, or deleted) on disk. The events contain file metadata and hashes
- Process command-line parameters: command-lines and arguments are extracted from Linux logs

> - Process monitoring: From system module, process dataset retreive Started and stopped processes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Process monitoring: From system module, process dataset retrieve Started and stopped processes

```

> - Process use of network: From system module, socket dataset retreive Opened and Closed sockets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Process use of network: From system module, socket dataset retrieve Opened and Closed sockets

```

## Transport to the collector

### Prerequisites
The following prerequisites are needed in order to setup efficient log concentration:

- Have administrator privileges on the server
- Traffic towards the Rsyslog must be open on `TCP 514`

### Configure the Client

#### Install and configure AuditBeat

> To download and install Auditbeat, use the commands that work with your system:

Reviewer: We say to use the command that work for your system and then only give the debian version. Maybe we should at list provide a link to th official page

Author: This is a documentation for Debian / Linux. The available module and path are not the sames for the others. So it cannot be as detailled and generalised.

Reviewer: Fair enough.

I was just thinking that since the name of the intake is `Linux AuditBeat` and not `Debian AuditBeat` we should at least display the installation on RPM systems and I don't think there would have much differences appart from

```
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/auditbeat/auditbeat-7.13.1-x86_64.rpm
sudo rpm -vi auditbeat-7.13.1-x86_64.rpm
```

Author: That was a very good point. I changed it. Thank you.

  enabled: false

# -------------------------------- File Output ---------------------------------
output.file:
  enabled: true

  # Configure JSON encoding
  codec.json:
    #pretty: false
    # Configure escaping HTML symbols in strings.
    #escape_html: false

  # Path to the directory where to save the generated files.
  path: "/tmp/auditbeat"
  filename: auditbeat
  rotate_every_kb: 10000
  number_of_files: 7
  permissions: 0600

# =================================== Paths ====================================

path.home: "/usr/share/auditbeat/bin"
path.config: "/etc/auditbeat"
path.data: "/var/lib/auditbeat"
path.logs: "/var/log/auditbeat"

# ================================== Template ==================================

# Elasticsearch template settings
setup.template.settings:
  # A dictionary of settings to place into the settings.index dictionary
  index:
    number_of_shards: 1
    #codec: best_compression

# ================================== Logging ===================================

logging.level: info

logging.to_files: true
logging.files:
  path: /var/log/auditbeat
  name: auditbeat
  rotateeverybytes: 10485760 # = 10MB
  keepfiles: 7
  permissions: 0600

> # ================================= Migration ==================================
> 
> # This allows to enable 6.7 migration aliases
> #migration.6_to_7.enabled: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

In order to make it easier, you can download the auditbeat configuration file:

```bash
$ wget -O /etc/auditbeat/auditbeat.yml https://docs.sekoia.io/integrations/configurations/auditbeat.yml
```

> Don't forget to set the right level of permission of the new `auditbeat.yml` if you edited a new one.
> `sudo chmod 0600 auditbeat.yml`
> Plus in this case ensure the owner of the file is root: `sudo chown root:root auditbeat.yml`

Auditbeat comes with predefined assets for parsing, indexing, and visualizing your data. To load these assets:
```bash
sudo auditbeat -e
```

> If no error occurs, use `Ctrl + C` to stop running it in the terminal.

Start AuditBeat with the folling command:
```bash
sudo systemctl restart auditbeat.service
```

> Check your logs in `/tmp/auditbeat/auditbeat` in JSON format.

> #### Configure the client Rsyslog

Reviewer: Maybe for Rsyslog we could redirect the user to the deidcated documentation page and only display here things that will be specific to auditbeat

Author: The documentation is oriented to non expert who has no time understanding a new technologie. This is espacially the objective of the Wiki. Help people proceed to a step by step on tailor made approach.

  paths:
  - /bin
  - /usr/bin
  - /sbin
  - /usr/sbin
  - /etc

  scan_at_start: true
  scan_rate_per_sec: 50 MiB
  max_file_size: 100 MiB
  hash_types: [sha1]

  # Detect changes to files included in subdirectories. Disabled by default.
  recursive: false

- module: system
  datasets:
    - package   # Installed, updated, and removed packages
  period: 2m

- module: system
  datasets:
    - host      # General host information, e.g. uptime, IPs
    - login     # User logins, logouts, and system boots.
    - process   # Started and stopped processes
    - socket    # Opened and closed sockets
    - user      # User information

  user.detect_password_changes: true

# ================================== Outputs ===================================
# ---------------------------- Elasticsearch Output ----------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  enabled: false

# -------------------------------- File Output ---------------------------------
output.file:
  enabled: true

  # Configure JSON encoding
  codec.json:
    #pretty: false
    # Configure escaping HTML symbols in strings.
    #escape_html: false

  # Path to the directory where to save the generated files.

>   path: "/tmp/auditbeat"

Reviewer 2: We should probably write these logs in the `/var/log/` directory (for example in `/var/log/auditbeat/`). Shouldn’t we also provide a `logrotate` configuration for these files?

logging.level: info

logging.to_files: true
logging.files:
  path: /var/log/auditbeat
  name: auditbeat
  rotateeverybytes: 10485760 # = 10MB
  keepfiles: 7
  permissions: 0600

```

In order to make it easier, you can download the auditbeat configuration file:

```bash
$ wget -O /etc/auditbeat/auditbeat.yml https://docs.sekoia.io/integrations/configurations/auditbeat.yml
```

> Don't forget to set the right level of permission of the new `auditbeat.yml` if you edited a new one.
> `sudo chmod 0600 auditbeat.yml`
> Plus in this case ensure the owner of the file is root: `sudo chown root:root auditbeat.yml`

Auditbeat comes with predefined assets for parsing, indexing, and visualizing your data. To load these assets:
```bash
sudo auditbeat -e
```

> If no error occurs, use `Ctrl + C` to stop running it in the terminal.

Start AuditBeat with the folling command:
```bash
sudo systemctl restart auditbeat.service
```

> Check your logs in `/tmp/auditbeat/auditbeat` in JSON format.

#### Configure the client Rsyslog

In order to allow the rsyslog to work properly, please ensure the following packages are installed:

```bash
sudo apt install rsyslog
```

> Settup a light client rsyslog by editing the `/etc/rsyslog.conf` file.

Reviewer 2: This setup might break existing configuration. IMHO, we’d better provide a new configuration file (`/etc/rsyslog.d/auditbeat.conf` for example) that would read Auditbeat files and push logs to the log collector.

A file like this should do the job:

```
module(load="imfile" PollingInterval="10")              #needs to be done just once
input(type="imfile"
      File="/tmp/auditbeat/auditbeat"
      Tag="linux_auditbeat"
      Severity="info"
      Facility="local7")

if ($syslogtag contains 'linux_auditbeat') then {
     action(
         type="omfwd"
         protocol="tcp"
         target="YOUR_RSYSLOG_DESTINATION_SERVER"
         port="514"
         TCP_Framing="octet-counted"
     )
}
```

Author: @otetard I don't know the objectif is to ease the deployment with as less file configuration as possible. Hence the all in one rsyslog.conf

Reviewer 2: Having to write a new file doesn’t add any complexity IMHO (it’s just a new file to add in `/etc/rsyslog.d/`). The other solution will introduce major regression/changes in the default logging configuration.
